1. Investors Guide to Real Estate in Vietnam
1.1 The Main Reasons Why You Should Invest in Vietnam
Vietnam is a prime destination for investment. Since joining the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 2007, Vietnam has experienced exponential growth. World events like the US-China trade war have made Vietnam an attractive destination for enterprises implementing a China Plus One strategy. Vietnam claimed its place as a Tiger Cub, a collective term for Southeast Asia’s five most powerful economies.

Learn about Vietnam’s soaring industrial sector in our latest issue of Industrial Insider.

Vietnam has a healthy expat community, and Forbes recently named it one of the best places to live in the world. Foreign skilled workers enjoy lucrative salaries and comfortable lifestyles, with a diverse offering of international schools, restaurants, and resorts. In January 2022, 93,000 foreigners had work permits.

In the post-pandemic context, the country’s successful vaccine campaign coupled with its effective pandemic strategy and solid recovery policies, such as those outlined in Resolutions 105/NQ-CP and 128/NQ-CP, mean that investors, both locally and internationally, remain bullish on Vietnam’s long-term growth.

1.2 Socio-Economic Reasons to Invest in Vietnam
1.2.1 GDP Growth and Strength
In 2021, GDP growth remained positive at 2.6% despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Industry and construction accounted for 63.8% of GDP, services accounted for 22.3% and agriculture, forestry and fishing contributed 13.9%. According to VinaCapital, Vietnam’s economic growth in Q2/2022 was 7.7% year-on-year (YoY), the fastest growth in the last ten years. 

On a regional level, Vietnam was forecast to have the fastest growing economy amongst ASEAN countries in 2022. The Asian Development Bank reiterated this message at the end of H1/2022, with GDP growth in 2022 expected to be higher than Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand.

1.2.2 Free Trade Agreements in Vietnam
Vietnam is part of numerous FTAs and bilateral trade agreements. FTAs are one of the main reasons to invest in Vietnam. New age trade agreements include the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), EU-Vietnam FTA (EVFTA), and UK-Vietnam FTA (UKVFTA). 

Mr Matthew Powell, Director of Savills Ha Noi, commented on the UKVFTA. He said: “The UKVFTA is an encompassing agreement that outlines market liberalisation for goods, services, and investment. It includes agreements fundamental to boosting trade, like tariff elimination, transparency commitments and a comprehensive framework for trade in services. Interestingly, this agreement detailed commitments to sustainable development alongside fiscal agreements. Other factors like competitive wages, a skilled workforce, tax exemption policies, and establishment policies are some of the main reasons to invest in Vietnam.”

1.2.3 Demographic Changes in Vietnam
Vietnam has a population of nearly 100 million people. The country’s urban population is forecast to increase from 37% in 2020 to 44% by 2030, and households are getting smaller. These factors will drive increased housing demand.

The country is also seeing a rise in the average daily spend. Since 2010, the average daily spend per person has increased significantly. By 2030, 55% of the population will have a daily spend of VND 250,000 to VND 690,000, higher than the 16% in 2010. In addition, more than 2% of the population will have a daily spend of VND 1,600,000 by 2030.  

1.4.3 What Properties Can Foreigners Own in Vietnam? 
There are several ways foreigners can own property in Vietnam. They can either invest in housing construction projects or buy, rent, or inherit houses, including apartments and landed properties like villas or townhouses. The only exceptions are if the properties are on land used for national defence and security.

To increase transparency, streamline administrative procedures, and regulate the resale process, there are laws regulating how much property foreigners may own. While there is no limit to how many properties an individual can buy, foreigners can only own up to 30% of the units within an apartment complex or 250 landed properties in an administrative ward. 

1.4.4 Property Taxes in Vietnam When Buying and Owning
Foreign businesses and individuals are responsible for paying taxes on properties they own. Since 2016, almost all enterprises have had to pay corporate income tax (CIT) of 20%. However, enterprises that lease or purchase social housing only pay 10% CIT. 

Read more about social housing in HCMC. 

Foreigners are also responsible for paying land use tax, such as on land for urban and rural residential use. Land for non-agricultural production or business is also subject to land tax; examples of non-agricultural use include industrial parks, production facilities, mines, or cemeteries. These tax rates are progressive and range from 0.03% to 0.15%.
